{{es/Traducción|AI:Main Page|0}}
{{en/Note|The user page is here: [[Main/en/AI settings]]}}
[[Translation:Main/en/AI:Main Page]]
{{en/NoAI}}
Welcome to the AI Development. Starting from 0.7.0 release it is possible for any user to create his or her own AI. Not only do we deliver a clean and simple API, we also allow you to make your AI in scripts. This should make it possible for anyone with a bit of programming knowledge to make fairly good AIs. It should also challenge people to build better AIs than the ones we had in 0.6. This page is all about telling you how to do it.

For all pages there is a rule: where examples are given, we will use Squirrel. We suggest everyone who wants to write an AI to read the [[Main/en/AI:Introduction|Introduction]] as it will explain the basic concept.

== Source & binaries ==
As of April 1st, 2009 NoAI is available in the 0.7.0 release. This means, you can [http://www.openttd.org/en/download-stable get the latest stable release]. Alternately you can get the latest source code by [[Main/en/FAQ development#How do I get the SVN version then.3F|checking out from]] OpenTTD SVN repository (svn://openttd.org), or get compiled version by [http://www.openttd.org/en/download-trunk downloading a nightly build].

== Tutorials ==
* [[Main/en/AI:Introduction|Introduction to writing an AI for OpenTTD]]
* [[Main/en/AI:Basics|Basics of writing an AI]]
* [[Main/en/AI:Need To Know|Things you need to know about writing an AI]]
* [[Main/en/AI:SQ pitfalls|Common pitfalls when working with Squirrel]]
* [[Main/en/AI:Lists|Introduction to lists (TownList, TileList, ...)]]
* [[Main/en/AI:Last Error|Find out how to retrieve error messages after failed build commands]]
* [[Main/en/AI:Trams|Trams, and everything related]]

== API Documentation ==
* Documentation of all API functions can be found in the Doxygen output. For AI API only, check http://noai.openttd.org/docs/

== AIs ==
=== Examples ===
* [[Main/en/AI:WrightAI|WrightAI]] - Builds plane routes only.
* [[Main/en/AI:TestAI|TestAI]] - A minimal main.nut and info.nut to base your AI from.

=== User AIs ===
To download user made AIs, please use the [[Main/en/Content Service|online content service]] or alternatively have a look at the [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewforum.php?f=65 NoAI forum].
{{en/Feature|0.7}}