[[Translation:Main/en/Tutorial/Conclusion]]{{en/-}}
{{en/Tabs|5|5
|Vodič/Sr|1. Početak<!--
-->|Vodič/Autobusi/Sr|2. Autobusi<!--
-->|Vodič/Vozovi/Sr|3. Vozovi<!--
-->|Vodič/Avioni/Sr|4. Avioni<!--
-->|Vodič/Zaključak/Sr|5. I na kraju...}}
<div style="padding:.5em 1em 1em 1em; border-top:none; background-color:#f1f2fe; color:#000;">
{{sr/Vodič}}
==Conclusion==
So, you have set up your first transport company and some routes. What now? Well, it's up to you - you can choose to build a thousand bus services all across the map. Or you could see a nice business opportunity involving a forest and a nearby sawmill. Who knows? Just make sure you keep your company running profitably, and perhaps you'll end up as the greatest Transport Tycoon come the year 2050.

===Next steps===
* The menu to the right of the article lists some more detailed tutorials, particularly for railways.
* Read a detailed description of the [[Main/en/Game interface|interface]] or even more about [[Main/en/Construction]].
* Find out what kind of [[Main/en/Vehicles]] you will encounter in OpenTTD. Meet planes & ships.
* Follow [[Main/en/Railway construction]] for more articles on laying even more tracks, making incredible junctions and some more advanced stuff.
* Read [[Main/en/OpenTTD|the manual]] if you need information on anything specific - or try searching for it
* There are also many tutorial videos on YouTube.

<br style="clear:both;">
<span style="float: right">[[Main/en/Tutorial/Two Platforms|'''Next Tutorial:''' Expanding the railway with more trains and platforms.]] &raquo;</span>
</div>
[[Category:en/Tutorial]]
[[Category:sr/Osnovni vodič]]